Okay, this next session,
we're going to talk about dependencies,
which you've already seen some of.
But we haven't worked with actual
dependencies, right, we've looked at how
dyno transpiled code that's yours, and we
executed a file that was on the internet.
We just executed it directly, but
we haven't actually used dependencies
which we're going to do now.
So you'll remember from our earlier
discussions that Deno thinks very
differently about dependencies and
it's a core premise.
But we need to talk about how it's
different, so Deno really tries to stay
as close to browser conventions
as it possibly can everywhere.
And how you do JavaScript in
a browser file is different
than how you do it in in node,
so, for instance,
like how do you do
JavaScript in an HTML file?
So if we come back to our exercises here,
like let's just create an HTML file,
and if we wanted to include a JavaScript
file here, how would we do that?
Well, we would come down here at
the bottom and we would say script, right?
And then we'd say SRC, and
then we would link to some file and
that would be how we would
include our JavaScript.
That's how browsers use JavaScript, okay,
so Deno does exactly the same thing,
it thinks about dependencies
in exactly the same way.
And it suggests that you should
include dependencies by their URL,
which seems completely bizarre for
those of us that have been working with.
NPM because we're used to installing
dependencies and then adding them.
But Deno wants to be like a browser so
it asks you to think like a browser here.
So we'll be requiring
dependencies by their URL,
Deno follows the ACMA script standard.
For Import Export syntax for modules,
which Node up until very recently
did not have a module system.
And so while you could say for
react projects you could do
import from this package.
And Node you were stuck doing
const require now there is
a module standard in Node.
But it is not the Ekman script scan
standard, which is what Deno adheres to.
So we talked about caching,
we looked at the Deno cache,
it's important in the way that
Deno handles dependencies.
Because it uses the URL reference
as the method to include these
dependencies in your project.
And you wouldn't want to download
these every time you ran your program.
So what Deno does is,
it downloads a dependency the first
time you run the program.
And until the dependency changes or
you force it to update,
it just sits there in your cache.
And Deno handles these dependencies
differently whether or not you're using
local, importing from a current file or
importing a remote dependency by URL.
So we're going to take a look at
what that actually looks like,
we talked about the Deno info command.
Which is just going to give you
these different directories,
these pads on your local machine.
So you can look at that going forward, so
local dependencies, so
let's talk about this.
So let's add a new file here,
and let's call it utils.ts,
and what we're gonna do here
is create a utils constant.
Okay, and then we're just gonna
export this thing out the end, so
I'm just gonna export define utils.
Now, you should note that
you can't do this, so
you can't do export default const utils.
The spec won't allow you to do this,
you can do this but
if you want to actually, sorry,
we can't do this export default const.
That's not okay, this is okay,
that's just part of the specs,
if you want to export it
as the default export,
you actually have to declare it and
then export it on a different line.
Okay, so
let's do something in utils, so, and
this actually could be
a coding interview question.
So, perhaps this will come in handy for
you in ways that you didn't know.
So one of the things that you can't
do in JavaScript, by default,
is reverse a string,
it doesn't have a method for doing that.
And so, again, sometimes this comes up
as a coding question, people ask you to
reverse a string in JavaScript, and
I'll show you an easy way to do it.
So let's create a reverse function and
that takes in some text,
a string will take in text, and
then we just want to reverse it.
So I'm gonna do text and then we
need to give it type string here so
that TypeScript knows that
we're dealing with a string.
And then, so the trick here is that
JavaScript strings don't have a reverse
method, but arrays do.
So if we can get the string into an array,
we can reverse it and
then make it a string again.
So that's basically the answer,
so if we split and
just pass in an empty string here
like this, this makes it an array.
And then we can reverse it [LAUGH]
like this and then we can just join it
right back again with an empty string,
and this will do the magic.
Okay, so
now we wanna use this in our app file, so
we do that by just importing it in,
so let's do that.
We'll remove all this so
we're just gonna import and
then I'm going to leave this open for
a minute and then say from utils.ts.
In Node, you don't have to
specify a file extension,
in Deno, you do, it's not going to
be okay with you not doing that.
There's a lot of debate about whether or
not you should or shouldn't have the file
extension, Ryan really felt strongly
that you should so you have to have it.
And then here we don't actually we
can just do import utils because it's
the default export.
And then down here, we could do,
we can just console.log, and
then we can reverse a message here.
So let's just do console.log and
then utils.reverse,
and then we'll pass in hello world.
A couple things to note here,
first of all,
you may be familiar with
the fact that you can do.
This in Node currently or in Baybel,
rather in the transportation and
you still get the default export but
in Deno you don't,
it'll actually give you default and
then reverse.
Okay, so if you export is
the default you can't use that star,
you need to do it like this,
just with the default export.
That's just part of the spec,
that's how it's supposed to work,
just be aware of that because if you're
used to doing that import star as that can
kind of mess you up.
It messed me up, okay, so let's run this,
let's run this to make sure it works.
Deno run app.ts, check the file and
we didn't return, we need to return,
it would be helpful if we returned.
Let's try it again, there we go,
now to reversing our string, all right,
I really hope that that helps
somebody get a job someday.
And I'm hopeful somebody will look back
and be like yeah, I watched this class and
they reversed the string and
now I work at Google, I don't know.
All right, so let's take a look at what
Deno actually does with this in the cache.
To do that,
let's see what do we wanna do here, so
we talked about utils,
we reverse the string.
So let's look at the cache,
so again, let's go to,
I'm going to go to Deno cache.
And then we're gonna look inside, go to
the gym directory, and then we're going to
go to File and then I'm just gonna
tab through some of this stuff.
File slash, gosh, so
cd file and then what do we have,
we have home slash home, whack, whack.
Dev me, deno exercises exercise,
there we are, let's look inside, okay, now
we've got these files which all this looks
should look somewhat familiar, right?
So we had these metadata files
that we looked at before, but
now we just have ones for utils as well.
But notice that we only have one bundle
info, which has our ts config in it.
So we don't have a bundle info for
utils because it's not the entry point.
And Deno knows that, but
if we look at the utils file,
here's our converted JavaScript here.
And if we look at this file,
it's actually,
let's move back over here,
get back to the home.
It's just importing utils from utils,
okay, so it's not doing anything special
there to get the files, it looks
exactly like what you would expect.